Now thus far, we always already started a server with ngServe
and now to make it even more confusing, ngServe behind the scenes actually uses a nodejs
server, really just because it's very simple to set up such a node server but ngServe and that is
also important only gives us a development server.
Now what does development server mean?
It means it's a server aimed at angular development,
it's not a production ready server and it certainly doesn't contain any of the logic we want to add
to our server side,
it also doesn't give us an entry point to add such logic,
it's really just a server that returns the angular app
and that also has useful features like auto-restart whenever we have a new angular app
version. So ngServe is nice for developing our angular application,
it's not the server we will use as a backend because there's one important thing you have to understand
regarding the way angular and a node backend or any backend work together.
We've got two ways of connecting a node and angular backend,
the first approach we can take is that we have a node application, a node express application that
serves the angular single page application as part of it.
It contains our other server side logic but it also has a certain path,
so a url endpoint to which we can send a request where it will return that angular single page
application.
The alternative is that we have two separate servers, so we have our node express server for our business
logic, for the authentication, for the data storage and then we have a separate static host which only returns
our angular single page application
and in this course, we will actually see both approaches because they really only matter or differ when
we reach the deployment section in the later sections of this course,
I just want you to be aware of this.
So in the first approach here, we have our node express back which handles incoming requests and that's
not just the request for the angular app but also requests sent by the angular app because as you saw
in the big picture picture, angular sends background http requests to store data, to fetch data and these
requests need to be handled by the node express backend.
So we have the endpoints for this but additionally, we have one special endpoint, one special url
we were able to handle and this is for example the /path,
so if we just send our request to our domain slash nothing and you will see what I mean with that slash
and with the path thing
but if we send such a simple request, then we return the angular single page application, for requests
targeting any other path,
we will do whatever our business logic is.
Again these will become more clear once we actually implement our paths.
Now for the separate server solution, we still have our node express app handling incoming requests
because we have these background requests sent by angular
but additionally, we also serve our angular single page application from a totally separate static host.
A static host is really just a simple server, could be a node server but could be any server, an apache,
an nginx server, so any server that doesn't run any server side logic, any server side code but simply
returns html, javascript and css files and that's all our angular app consists of,
so this is all we need. In both cases,
we got logically separated apps though,
so even if we use one and the same node server for serving both the angular app and hosting our core
business logic, well in both cases we actually have separated apps in a sense of angular handles the UI
and sends background requests and node express handles these background requests and does something
with them.
The only difference on the left approach where we also serve the SPA is that we got one special route, one
special path where we do also return the angular app
but that's all,
besides that there is no strict connection because what we build is a restful API with our node express
backend. Now what is a restful API?